---
title: "Agile: Unlocking our Human Potential – Patrick Kua"
date: 2013-06-26
slug: agile-unlocking-our-human-potential-patrick-kua
draft: false
language: en
---

There is more to developing products than just doing so. Patrick has been working with software for some time, and many problems afterwards he sees agile methods as a way to make it potentialize thinking.

In the past, there was an impression that motivation was tied to obligation, and it seemed not to work over time, but as the days went by, it seemed like the best idea was to put more money in the middle, bonuses among others, but just like agile Brazil saw that many people engage in organizing events and other things thinking about autonomy, excellence, and purpose (Daniel Pink's ideas) and starting from this change of view they began to auto-motivate themselves, feel happier contributing to something better, being better and doing it when they wanted to do so.

Having this as background we have Patrick, working on a system advised by XP, using TDD, continuous integration, retrospectives, use stories. And that was very exciting because there was less waste and products flowed with many interactions and integration between IT and development teams.

For Patrick this success was related to how good the relationship is between these teams, and this in turn is totally related to the frequency of deliveries. The business respects technological decisions, but we need to make them gradually resolve problems and encourage this good coexistence. This must be sustained and sought.

Many times the team does not have the freedom or autonomy to choose or decide how to proceed, but the use of these practices is more related to passion in doing it and afterwards with these results confidence generated creates fruit!!

Never dampen enthusiasm, use a way to channel it. We need to let it roll, and this can be a bit difficult at some stages, and in a cycle without new modifications or a little help may be very complicated. Patrick believes that at this point we have a ease generated by agile methods such as failing quickly and discovering with feedbacks what to improve.

There are 5 stages when someone is seeking excellence on a certain subject. When you're a novice in something, we must learn, listen, and practice a lot, follow instructors and etc. Passing through the advanced stage for an initiate, for the competent, we must start to surpass those barriers, and discover what we can do better... and this advances until at an expert level we no longer need to think about it, we already know what will work.

Agile methods and their practices encourage us to go in the right direction, we can change and improve how we communicate, deliver what needs to be delivered.

We can see cooperation and intrinsic leadership as agile methods lead us to live. THE MORE DIVERSIFIED OUR TEAMS AND THE GREATER THE INTERACTION BETWEEN THEM, BETTER! Agile leaders, who are most of those working, are not people who tell or say what everyone should do, but those with certain characteristics that help others with their qualities.

The final message, think about autonomy, excellence and purpose, cooperation and leadership the event will help us with this!! @pakua